# Server Setup
The MAYPAD frontend and backend run together in docker container allowing it to run on any infrastructure. It requires a additional MySQL database for data persistence.

## Running the server
We provide a ready-to-use docker-compose file with which you can start a MAYPAD instance including a MySQL database within minutes. Note that you should use a proper MySQL database instead of the docker container for production environments and persistence.

### Building yourself
1. Clone the repo
2. Make sure all dependencies are installed (java, maven, nodejs, docker)
3. Install node modules `cd frontend && npm install && cd ..`
4. Build the container `./build.sh --prod`
5. Copy the sample config file `cp config.yaml{.sample,}` and make neccessary changes to it
6. Start MAYPAD using `docker-compose up`

### Using pre-build docker container
1. Replace the image for the maypad-app in the docker-compose file `maypad` by `juliantodt/maypad`
2. Start MAYPAD using `docker-compose up`


## Configuration
* MAYPAD can either be configured using it's configuration file or via environment variables (`MAYPAD_` followed by the full attribute name in ALL_CAPS_WITH_UNDERSCORES, e.g. `MAYPAD_WEBHOOK_TOKEN_LENGTH` for `webhook.tokenLength`).
* The environment variable `MAYPAD_HOME` indicates where MAYPAD will look for the configuration file and the frontend files and defaults to `/usr/share/maypad/`.
* For an example config file see `config.yaml.sample`
* Note that MAYPAD will generate an encryption key for database entries under `MAYPAD_HOME/security/key.dat` that you should save between container restarts. The default docker-compose will take care of that.

### Environment variables
Full documentation of available environment variables. If a value of one of these variables is set, it will override the value given in the config.yaml-file.


`MAYPAD_HOME`: Home path for MAYPAD. MAYPAD looks for the frontend, cloned repositories and the server configuration file here.  

`MAYPAD_WEB_SERVER_PORT`: Port on which the web server runs.  
`MAYPAD_RELOAD_REPOSITORIES_SECONDS`: Time interval in seconds in which MAYPAD refreshes the imported repositories (projects).  


`MAYPAD_SCHEDULER_POOL_SIZE`: Sets the amount of threads available to the MAYPAD scheduler.  

`MAYPAD_WEBHOOK_TOKEN_LENGTH`: Sets the length of the tokens inside a webhook generated by MAYPAD (e.g. webhook for reporting a successful build).  

`MAYPAD_MAXIMUM_REFRESH_REQUESTS_ENABLED`: Set to `1` when you want to limit the amount of refresh requests in a given time interval to a given number.  

`MAYPAD_MAXIMUM_REFRESH_REQUESTS_SECONDS`: The time interval described in `MAYPAD_MAXIMUM_REFRESH_REQUESTS_ENABLED` in seconds.  

`MAYPAD_MAXIMUM_REFRESH_REQUESTS_MAXIMUM_REQUESTS`: The maximum allowed refresh requests in the time interval given by `MAYPAD_MAXIMUM_REFRESH_REQUESTS_SECONDS`, as described in `MAYPAD_MAXIMUM_REFRESH_REQUESTS_ENABLED`.  

`MAYPAD_LOGGING_LEVEL_ROOT`: Sets the level of detail in the server console log. Accepted values are: `ERROR`, `WARN`, `INFO`, `DEBUG`, `TRACE`. 

`MAYPAD_REPOSITORY_STORAGE_PATH`: Sets the path in which repositories are supposed to be cloned into.  

`MAYPAD_MYSQL_USER`: Sets the username for the database-connection used by MAYPAD for persistence.  

`MAYPAD_MYSQL_PASSWORD`: Sets the password for the database-connection.  

`MAYPAD_MYSQL_DATABASE`: Sets the database name for the database-connection.  

`MAYPAD_MYSQL_HOST`: Sets the hostname of the database-connection. This could for example be an IP-Address or a URL.  

`MAYPAD_MYSQL_PORT`: Sets the port on which MAYPAD should listen for the database-connection.  

`MAYPAD_DOMAIN`: Sets the domain on which MAYPAD is running. Used to construct complete webhooks.


### Configuration yaml-file
MAYPAD can use a configuration file called `config.yaml` in the `MAYPAD_HOME`-directory. All keys correspond to an environment variable, which is described above. Here's a complete configuration file (also found in the repository as `config.yaml.sample`):

```YAML
webServerPort: 8080 # Corresponds to MAYPAD_WEB_SERVER_PORT, Default: -1
reloadRepositoriesSeconds: 900 # Corresponds to MAYPAD_RELOAD_REPOSITORIES_SECONDS, Default: 900

scheduler:
  poolSize: 4 # Corresponds to MAYPAD_SCHEDULER_POOL_SIZE, Default: 2

webhook:
  tokenLength: 24 # Corresponds to MAYPAD_WEBHOOK_TOKEN_LENGTH, Default: 20

maximumRefreshRequests:
  enabled: true # Corresponds to MAYPAD_MAXIMUM_REFRESH_REQUESTS_ENABLED, Default: false
  seconds: 3600 # Corresponds to MAYPAD_MAXIMUM_REFRESH_REQUESTS_SECONDS, Default: 900
  maximumRequests: 100 # Corresponds to MAYPAD_MAXIMUM_REFRESH_REQUESTS_MAXIMUM_REQUESTS, Default: 100

logLevel: INFO #ERROR, WARN, INFO, DEBUG # Corresponds to MAYPAD_LOG_LEVEL, Default: INFO
repositoryStoragePath: /home/maypad/repositories # Corresponds to MAYPAD_REPOSITORY_STORAGE_PATH, Default: not set

mysql:
  user: maypad # Corresponds to MAYPAD_MYSQL_USER, Default: not set
  password: maypaddb # Corresponds to MAYPAD_MYSQL_PASSWORD, Default: not set
  database: maypad # Corresponds to MAYPAD_MYSQL_DATABASE, Default: not set
  host: maypad-database # Corresponds to MAYPAD_MYSQL_HOST, Default: not set
  port: 3306 # Corresponds to MAYPAD_MYSQL_PORT, Default: -1

domain: localhost # Corresponds to MAYPAD_DOMAIN, Default: not set
```

## Webserver Configuration
You can use MAYPAD without a additional webserver, but if you want to add authorization to MAYPAD, consider proxying the requests through a webserver such as nginx and then add http basic authentication. An example configuration could look like this (note the extra nginx configuration parameters because MAYPAD uses Server-Send-Events for notifications):
```
server {
  listen 80 default_server;
  listen [::]:80 default_server;
  server_name demo.maypad.de;

  location / {
    proxy_pass http://maypad-app:8080/;
    add_header X-Frame-Options SAMEORIGIN;

    auth_basic "MAYPAD Demo";
    auth_basic_user_file /etc/nginx/conf.d/htpasswd;
  }

  location /sse {
    proxy_pass http://maypad-app:8080/sse;
    add_header X-Frame-Options SAMEORIGIN;
    proxy_http_version 1.1;
    proxy_set_header Connection "";
    add_header Transfer-Encoding: chunked;
    add_header X-Accel-Buffering: no;
    proxy_buffering off;
  }
}

```
The docker-compose in this case could look like this (using a external MySQL database):
```
version: '3'

services:
  app:
    image: juliantodt/maypad
    container_name: maypad-app
    restart: 'no'
    volumes:
    - ./config.yaml:/usr/share/maypad/config.yaml
    - ./repos:/home/maypad/repositories
    - ./security:/usr/share/maypad/security
    environment:
    - SPRING_PROFILES_ACTIVE=prod
    expose:
    - 8080
  nginx:
    image: nginx
    container_name: maypad-nginx
    restart: always
    ports:
    - 80:80
    volumes:
    - ./nginx:/etc/nginx/conf.d
```

## Addtional configurations?
Using MAYPAD on a different infrastructure (AWS, Kubernetes, etc.)? Open a Pull-Request and add your configuration here for others to see.
